Demons
------

Characters:

1. Varvara
2. Stepan
3. Leputin
4. Krillov
5. Nicolai (Stavrogin)
6. Lebyadkin
7. Marya (sister)
8. Pyotr
9. Shatov
10. Fedka
11. Von Lembeke
----------------------
12. Yulia *possibly
13. Narrator *possibly

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scene 1:
- liputin is delivering a warning to stepan that bad times have arrived & he is being played by Varvara
- the big scandal is nicolai may have married (retarded) woman marya and nicolay has been paying him off 
- stepan has already been angry at being manipulated, to stay at home, get married to cover the loss of ransom money
- note: may want to say varvara has returnned from seeing her son abroad alarmed.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Timeline:
1. Stepan Monologue - must allude to false marriage or being bullied by Varvara (is the idea Nicolai got her pregnant?)
2. Liputin enters with Krillov, Stepan is nervous
3. Leputin informs Stepan that Pyotr and Nicolai are coming
4. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov believes in suicide
5. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov lives in same house as shatov
6. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov beat up Lebyadkin for beating his sister
7. The words "cause", "spy", and "inform the government" mentioned (recall even Varvara wanted to create a revolutionary newspaper)
8. Leputin informs Stepan that Varvara is worried that Nicolai slept with fiance of Stepan

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


-------- Possible Krillov scene --------

KRILLOV:
That's foolishness; that's great nonsense. All this is nonsense because Lebyadkin is drunk. I did not tell
Liputin, but only explained the nonsense, because he got it all wrong. Liputin has a great deal of fantasy, he
built up a mountain out of nonsense. I trusted Liputin yesterday."
"But you see, you knew all about it already this morning; Liputin is weak or impatient, or malicious or ... he's
envious."
"He told the truth about me however; I am writing. Only that's no matter."
"He invented that about heads himself out of a book, and told me first himself, and understands badly. But I
only seek the causes why men dare not kill themselves; that's all. And it's all no matter."

-- Narrator
"How do you mean they don't dare? Are there so few suicides?"

LIPUTIN:
"Very few."

-- Narrator
"Do you really think so?"

"What is it restrains people from suicide, do you think?" I asked.

LIPUTIN:
"I ... I don't know much yet... . Two prejudices restrain them, two things; only two, one very little, the other
very big."

-- Narrator
"What is the little thing?"

LIPUTIN:
"Pain."

-- Narrator
"Pain? Can that be of importance at such a moment?"

LIPUTIN:
"Of the greatest. There are two sorts: those who kill themselves either from great sorrow or from spite, or
being mad, or no matter what ... they do it suddenly. They think little about the pain, but kill themselves
suddenly. But some do it from reason they think a great deal."

-- Narrator
"Why, are there people who do it from reason?"

LIPUTIN:
"Very many. If it were not for superstition there would be more, very many, all."

-- Narrator
"What, all?" "But aren't there means of dying without pain?"

LIPUTIN:
"Imagine"he stopped before me" imagine a stone as big as a great house; it hangs and you are under it; if it
falls on you, on your head, will it hurt you?"

-- Narrator
"A stone as big as a house? Of course it would be fearful."

LIPUTIN:
"I speak not of the fear. Will it hurt?"

-- Narrator
"A stone as big as a mountain, weighing millions of tons? Of course it wouldn't hurt."

LIPUTIN:
"But really stand there and while it hangs you will fear very much that it will hurt. The most learned man, the
greatest doctor, all, all will be very much frightened. Every one will know that it won't hurt, and every one
will be afraid that it will hurt."

-- Narrator
"Well, and the second cause, the big one?"

"The other world!"

"You mean punishment?"

"That's no matter. The other world; only the other world."

"Are there no atheists, such as don't believe in the other world at all?"

"You judge from yourself, perhaps."
"Every one cannot judge except from himself," he said, reddening. "There will be full freedom when it will be
just the same to live or not to live. That's the goal for all."

"The goal? But perhaps no one will care to live then?"

"No one," he pronounced with decision.

"Man fears death because he loves life. That's how I understand it," I observed, "and that's determined by
nature."

KRILLOV:
"That's abject; and that's where the deception comes in." His eyes flashed. "Life is pain, life is terror, and man
is unhappy. Now all is pain and terror. Now man loves life, because he loves pain and terror, and so they have
done according. Life is given now for pain and terror, and that's the deception. Now man is not yet what he
will be. There will be a new man, happy and proud. For whom it will be the same to live or not to live, he will
be the new man. He who will conquer pain and terror will himself be a god. And this God will not be."

"Then this God does exist according to you?"

KRILLOV:
"He does not exist, but He is. In the stone there is no pain, but in the fear of the stone is the pain. God is the
pain of the fear of death. He who will conquer pain and terror will become himself a god. Then there will be a
new life, a new man; everything will be new ... then they will divide history into two parts: from the gorilla to
the annihilation of God, and from the annihilation of God to ..."

"To the gorilla?"

KRILLOV:
"... To the transformation of the earth, and of man physically. Man will be God, and will be transformed
physically, and the world will be transformed and things will be transformed and thoughts and all feelings.
What do you think: will man be changed physically then?"

"If it will be just the same living or not living, all will kill themselves, and perhaps that's what the change will
be?"

"That's no matter. They will kill deception. Every one who wants the supreme freedom must dare to kill
himself. He who dares to kill himself has found out the secret of the deception. There is no freedom beyond;
that is all, and there is nothing beyond. He who dares kill himself is God. Now every one can do so that there
shall be no God and shall be nothing. But no one has once done it yet."

KRILLOV:
"There have been millions of suicides."
"But always not for that; always with terror and not for that object. Not to kill fear. He who kills himself only
to kill fear will become a god at once."

-- Narrator
"He won't have time, perhaps," I observed.

KRILLOV:
"That's no matter," he answered softly, with calm pride, almost disdain. "I'm sorry that you seem to be
laughing," he added half a minute later.

-- Narrator
"It seems strange to me that you were so irritable this morning and are now so calm, though you speak with
warmth."

KRILLOV:
"This morning? It was funny this morning," he answered with a smile. "I don't like scolding, and I never
laugh," he added mournfully.

-- Narrator
"Yes, you don't spend your nights very cheerfully over your tea."

KRILLOV:
"You think not?" he smiled with some surprise. "Why? No, I ... I don't know." He was suddenly confused. "I
know not how it is with the others, and I feel that I cannot do as others. Everybody thinks and then at once
thinks of something else. I can't think of something else. [***] I think all my life of one thing. God has tormented
me all my life," he ended up suddenly with astonishing expansiveness.

-- Narrator
"And tell me, if I may ask, why is it you speak Russian not quite correctly? Surely you haven't forgotten it
after five years abroad?"

KRILLOV:
"Don't I speak correctly? I don't know. No, it's not because of abroad. I have talked like that all my life ... it's
no matter to me."

-- Narrator
"Another question, a more delicate one. I quite believe you that you're disinclined to meet people and talk very
little. Why have you talked to me now?"

KRILLOV:
"To you? This morning you sat so nicely and you ... but it's all no matter ... you are like my brother, very
much, extremely," he added, flushing. "He has been dead seven years. He was older, very, very much."

-- Narrator
"I suppose he had a great influence on your way of thinking?"

KRILLOV:
"N-no. He said little; he said nothing. I'll give your note."

-------- Following could be mixed into start scene 1 --------
"I feel sure that you're in a regular litter and clouds of tobacco smoke. I'm sending you Marya and Fomushka.
They'll tidy you up in half an hour. And don't hinder them, but go and sit in the kitchen while they clear up.
I'm sending you a Bokhara rug and two china vases. I've long been meaning to make you a present of them,
and I'm sending you my Teniers, too, for a time! You can put the vases in the window and hang the Teniers
on the right under the portrait of Goethe; it will be more conspicuous there and it's always light there in the
morning. If he does turn up at last, receive him with the utmost courtesy but try and talk of trifling matters, of
some intellectual subject, and behave as though you had seen each other lately. Not a word about me. Perhaps
I may look in on you in the evening.V. S.
"P.S.If he does not come to-day he won't come at all."

STEPAN:
"I don't care a hang about her anxieties!
Why should I care if she's wearing herself out over Nikolay! Je proclame ma liberte! I don't want her
gifts and vases.  I demanded she see me but all she says is, "stay at home".  I will not do her bidding
to cover another man's sins!
  If I am to marry Darya she'll need to speak to me herself and confess everything. Then
maybe I'll surprise a whole generation by my magnanimity... Am I a scoundrel or not, my dear sir?"

