Timeline:
- so the big point to this scene is, we're introduced to stepan, a sort of protaganist, then to dubious liputin who 
tells him that he's being played by varvara to protect nicolai, her son, but he cant get out of it bc she supports him,
yet thats what he says he'll do.
- to make it simple, lets say the big scandal is nicolai married to a retarded beaten woman marya
- to make it clearer how stepan being manipulated (which isnt clear), we cud change his comment, to "Im not gonna stay inside, keep quiet, stay at home, get married, ..."

- may want to say varvara had returnned from seeing her son abroad alarmed.

1. Stepan Monologue - must allude to false marriage or being bullied by Varvara (is the idea Nicolai got her pregnant?)
2. Liputin enters with Krillov, Stepan is nervous
3. Leputin informs Stepan that Pyotr and Nicolai are coming
4. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov believes in suicide
5. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov lives in same house as shatov
6. Leputin informs Stepan that Krillov beat up Lebyadkin for beating his sister
7. The words "cause", "spy", and "inform the government" mentioned (recall even Varvara wanted to create a revolutionary newspaper)
8. Leputin informs Stepan that Varvara is worried that Nicolai slept with fiance of Stepan

Scene 1 (must make 400 lines or less)

A room, Stepan walks about, haughty, contempous, melodramatic, defiant, possibly adjusting clothes or his tie.

-- STEPAN:
"Can you suppose... can you imagine, that I, Stepan Verhovensky, cannot find in myself the moral strength to
pack a bag and lay it on my feeble shoulders to go out my gate and vanish forever?  Now more than ever honour
demands it. This is not the first time Stepan Verhovensky has had to repel despotism!  Especially
the despotism of that crazy woman who supports me.  You don't believe I have the strength to leave 
this pampered life as a tutor and die of hunger in a ditch!  Answer me, answer at once, do you or don't you
believe I have the strength?  Perhaps you're bored with me?

[Snatches hat & stick to leave when voices and rapid footsteps at the door, he stops, thunder-struck.]

Liputin! (I am lost)

[enter Liputin]

-- Liputin
Stepan, I make bold to intrude on your solitude. I bring a visitor!  Mr. Kirillov, a
distinguished civil engineer. And what's more he knows your son, the much esteemed Pyotr,
very intimately; and he has a message from him.

-- Krillov
The message is your own addition, Liputin. There's no message. But I do know Pyotr. I left him in 
X. province ten days ago.

[Stepan mechanically offers his hand and motioned him to sit and sits himself still with stick and
hat in hand unaware]

-- Liputin
Bah, but you were going out yourself!  I was told that you were to stay at home.

-- Stepan
Yes, I've had a case of summer cholera, but I meant to go for a walk, I..."

[flings his hat and stick on the sofa embarrased pleasing Liputin who sits down himself in a wicker
chair which he drags to the middle of the room, equidistant between his host and the visitor, Liputin's
sharp eyes darting from one corner of the room to another.]

-- Stepan
It's... a long while since I've seen Pyotr. You met abroad?

-- Krillov
Both here and abroad.

-- Liputin (about Krillov)
Mr. Krillov has only just returned.  He has come to our town as he expects a job building the 
new railway bridge. 

[Krillov sat with awkward impatience, angry about something]

He knows Nikolay too.

-- Stepan
Do you know Vavara's son?

-- Krillov
I know him too.

-- Stepan
It's... a very long time since I've seen either Nikolay or Pyotr.  I was Nikolay's tutor and ... well
as to Pyotr, I feel I have little right to even call myself a father to him...  Is he doing well?

-- Krillov
Soon you can ask him yourself.

-- Stepan
He's coming! At last I ... you see, it's very long since I've see Pyotr!  Now I expect my poor boy to whom,
to whom I have been so much to blame! When I left him in Capitol I ... looked at him as a nonentity.
He was a very nervous boy, emotional and ... timid.  When he said his prayers going to bed he used to
bow down to the ground, and make the sign of the cross on his pillow in the hope he would not die in the
night... Je m'en souviens. Not a sign of anything higher, no embryo of a future ideal ... c'etait comma
un petit idiot, but I'm afraid I am incoherent; excuse me ... you came upon me ...

-- Krillov
You say seriously that he prayed on his pillow?

-- Stepan
Yes, he used to ...

-- Krillov
I just asked. Go on.

-- Stepan
I'm very grateful to you for this news. But I'm not in a good condition talk right .... Where you are lodging?

-- Krillov
On the corner of Bogoyavlensky Street.

-- Stepan
Isn't that where Shatov lives.

-- Liputin
In the very same house!  Only Shatov lodges above in the attic, while Mr. Krillov is down below with Captain
Lebyadkin. He knows Shatov too, and he knows Shatov's wife. He was very intimate with her, abroad.

[-- REMOVE REFS TO SHATOV'S WIFE --]

-- Stepan 
Comment! Do you really know anything about that unhappy marriage de ce pauvre ami and that woman?!
You are the first man I've met who has known her personally; and if only.

-- Krillov
What nonsense!  How you add to things, Liputin! I've not seen Shatov's wife; I've only once seen her in the
distance and not at all close... . I know Shatov. Why do you add things of all sorts?

-- Stepan
Excuse me, I understand that it may be a very delicate subject ...

-- Krillov
No sort of delicate subject in it, and indeed it's shameful, and I didn't shout at you that it's nonsense, but at
Liputin, because he adds things. Excuse me if you took it to yourself. I know Shatov, but I don't know his wife
at all ... I don't know her at all!

-- Stepan
I understand. I understand. And if I insisted, it's only because I'm very fond of our poor friend, noire irascible
ami, and have always taken an interest in him. ... In my opinion that man changed his former, possibly
over-youthful but yet sound ideas, too abruptly. And now he says all sorts of things about notre Sainte Russie
to such a degree that I've long explained this upheaval in his whole constitution, I can only call it that, to some
violent shock in his family life, and, in fact, to his unsuccessful marriage. I, who know my poor Russia like
the fingers on my hand, and have devoted my whole life to the Russian people, I can assure you that he does
not know the Russian people, and what's more ..."

-- Krillov
I don't know the Russian people at all, either, and I haven't time to study them,

-- Liputin
But Krillov is studying them, he has already begun writing an interesting article dealing the increase of suicide
in the province, and the causes. He has reached amazing results.

-- Krillov
You have no right at all, I'm not writing an article. I asked you confidentially, quite by chance, about your views.
There's no article at all.  

[Liputin was obviously enjoying himself.]

-- Liputin
I beg your pardon, perhaps I made a mistake in calling your literary work an article. He is only collecting
observations, and the essence of the question, or, so to say, its moral aspect he is not touching at all. And,
indeed, he rejects morality itself altogether, and holds with the last new principle of general destruction for the
sake of ultimate good. He demands already more than a hundred million heads for the establishment of
common sense in Europe; many more than they demanded at the last Peace Congress. Mr. Krillov goes
further than anyone in that sense.

[Krillov gives Liputin contemptuous smile, and for a minute every one was silent.]

-- Krillov
All this is stupid, Liputin.  I scorn to talk much less argue, but you haven't the right....

-- Stepan
Perhaps you are wise.

-- Krillov
I apologise to you, but I am not angry with anyone here, but I
have seen few people for four years. For four years I have talked little and have tried to see no one, for my
own objects which do not concern anyone else, for four years. Liputin found this out and is laughing. I
understand and don't mind. I'm not ready to take offence, only annoyed at his liberty. And if I don't explain
my ideas to you... it's not at all that I'm afraid of your giving information to the government.

[ADD MENTION TO 6 MOTNHS WITH SHATOV]

[No one made any reply to these words. We only looked at each other. Even Liputin forgot to snigger.]

-- Stepan
Gentlemen, I'm very sorry but I feel ill and upset.  Excuse me.

-- Krillov
That's for us to go.  It's a good thing you told us. I'm so forgetful.

[He rose, and with a good-natured air went up to Stepan Trofimovitch, holding out his hand.]

I'm sorry you're not well.

-- Stepan
I wish you every success among us. I can understand that if you have lived so long cutting yourself off from
the people you must inevitably look with wonder upon us now.  I'm only puzzled at one thing: you
want to build our bridge and at the same time you declare that you hold with the principle of universal
destruction. They won't let you build our bridge."

-- Krillov
What's that you said? I say!
[breaking into laughter and Liputin rubbed his hand with delight, and Krillov readies to leave]

-- Liputin
The reason he's so cross to-day is because he had a disturbance to-day with Captain Lebyadkin over his sister. Captain
Lebyadkin thrashes that precious sister of his, the mad girl, every day with a whip, a real Cossack whip, every
morning and evening. So Krillov took the lodge so as not to be present. Well, good-bye.

-- Stepan
A sister? An invalid? With a whip?  What sister? What Lebyadkin?  Lebyadkin! Oh, that's the retired captain;
he used only to call himself a lieutenant before. ... Oh, what is his rank to me? What sister? Good heavens! ...
You say Lebyadkin? But there used to be a Lebyadkin here in town... ."

-- Leptuin
That's the very man.

-- Stepan
I thought he was caught with forged papers leaving the province?

-- Leputin
Well, now he's come back.

-- Stepan
Why, but he's a scoundrel?

-- Leputin
As though no one could be a scoundrel among us.

-- Stepan
Good heavens! I didn't mean that at all ... though I might agree with you about that.  You in particular.

-- Leputin
It's all so trivial... This captain seems to have went away at that time not to escape with forged papers,
but to retrieve his sister who was in hiding from him somewhere outside the country, now he's brought her
back and that's the whole story.

Why do you seem frightened, Stepan Trofimovitch? I'm only relating drunken chatter from town.  Anyway this
sister who not only mad but lame as well, seems to have been seduced by some one from our town.  It seems
Mr. Lebyadkin has received a yearly grant from the seducer to keep quiet. Lebyadkin walded into town ten
days ago and now I've seen hundreds in his hands. His sister has fits of some sort every day, she shrieks
and he 'keeps her in order' with the whip. You must inspire a woman with respect, he says.

-- Stepan
Is this all true?

-- Krillov
You do gossip a lot, Liputin.

-- Stepan
Mysteries, secrets! Where have all these mysteries and secrets among us sprung from?

[Krillov starts to exit]

-- Leputin
Krillov positively snatched the whip out of his hand, broke it and threw it out of the window, and
they had a violent quarrel.

-- Krillov
Why are you chattering, Liputin; it's stupid. What for?

-- Leputin
Why be so modest and conceal the generous impulses of one's soul; of your soul? I'm not speaking of
my own of course.

-- Krillov
How stupid... and unnecessary. Lebyadkin's stupid and of no use to the cause.  Why keep babbling? I'm going.

[THIS IS MAIN POINT OF LIPUTIN]

-- Leputin
Oh, what a pity! [Liputin smiles] Or I'd have amused you with another little story, Stepan. I came, indeed,
on purpose to tell you, though I dare say you've heard it already. Well, till
another time, Mr. Krillov is in such a hurry. Good-bye for the present. The story concerns Varvara
Petrovna. She amused me the day before yesterday; she sent for me on purpose. It's simply killing.
Good-bye.

[But at this Stepan Trofimovitch absolutely would not let him go. He seized him by the shoulders, turned him
sharply back into the room, and sat him down in a chair. Liputin was positively scared.]

Why, to be sure, [Liputin looks at Stepan] she suddenly sent for me and asked me 'confidentially' my
private opinion, whether her son Nikolay is mad!

-- Stepan
"Liputin, you know you only came here to start a scandle!"

-- Leputin
Upon my word, Stepan...

-- Stepan 
Hold your tongue and begin! I beg you, Mr. Kirillov, to come back too, and be present.  Sit down, and you,
Liputin, begin directly, simply and without any excuses.

-- Liputin
If I had only known it would upset you so much I wouldn't have begun at all. And of course I thought you
knew all about it from Ms. Petrovna herself

-- Stepan
You didn't think that at all.

-- Leputin
Do me the favour and sit yourself down again.

[Stepan Trofimovitch restrained himself and sank impressively into an easy chair. The engineer stared
gloomily at the floor. Liputin looked at them with intense enjoyment]

-- Leputin
How am I to begin? ... I'm too overwhelmed...

[NEAL: mix in a little Nicolai backstory possibly]

-- Liputin (recollecting of Varvara) 
'You remember,' she said, 'that four years ago when
Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch was ill he did some strange things which made all the town wonder till the position
was explained. One of those actions concerned you personally. When Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch recovered he
went at my request to call on you. I know that he talked to you several times before, too. Tell me openly and
candidly what you ... (she faltered a little at this point) what you thought of Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch then ...
what was your view of him altogether ... what idea you were able to form of him at that time ... and, still have?
'
"Here she was completely confused, so that she paused for a whole minute, and suddenly flushed. I was
alarmed. She began again touchingly is not quite the word, it's not applicable to herbut in a very impressive
tone:

"' I want you,' she said, 'to understand me clearly and without mistake. I've sent for you now because I look
upon you as a keen-sighted and quick-witted man, qualified to make accurate observations.' (What
compliments!) 'You'll understand too,' she said, 'that I am a mother appealing to you... . Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch has suffered some calamities and has passed through many changes of fortune in his life. All
that,' she said, 'might well have affected the state of his mind. I'm not speaking of madness, of course,' she
said, 'that's quite out of the question!' (This was uttered proudly and resolutely.) 'But there might be something
strange, something peculiar, some turn of thought, a tendency to some particular way of looking at things.'
(Those were her exact words, and I admired, Stepan Trofimovitch, the exactness with which Varvara Petrovna
can put things. She's a lady of superior intellect!) 'I have noticed in him, anyway,' she said,' a perpetual
restlessness and a tendency to peculiar impulses. But I am a mother and you are an impartial spectator, and
therefore qualified with your intelligence to form a more impartial opinion. I implore you, in fact' (yes, that
word, 'implore' was uttered!), 'to tell me the whole truth, without mincing matters. And if you will give me
your word never to forget that I have spoken to you in confidence, you may reckon upon my always being
ready to seize every opportunity in the future to show my gratitude.' Well, what do you say to that?"

-- Stepan
"You have ... so amazed me ..." faltered Stepan Trofimovitch, "that I don't believe you."

-- Liputin
"Yes, observe, observe," cried Liputin, as though he had not heard Stepan Trofimovitch, "observe what must
be her agitation and uneasiness if she stoops from her grandeur to appeal to a man like me, and even
condescends to beg me to keep it secret. What do you call that? Hasn't she received some news of Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch, something unexpected?"

-- Stepan
"I don't know ... of news of any sort ... I haven't seen her for some days, but ... but I must say ..." lisped Stepan
Trofimovitch, evidently hardly able to think clearly, "but I must say, Liputin, that if it was said to you in
confidence, and here you're telling it before every one ..."

-- Liputin
"Absolutely in confidence! But God strike me dead if I ... But as for telling it here ... what does it matter I Are
we strangers, even Alexey Nilitch?"

-- Stepan
"I don't share that attitude. No doubt we three here will keep the secret, but I'm afraid of the fourth, you, and
wouldn't trust you in anything. ..."

-- Liputin
"What do you mean by that? Why it's more to my interest than anyone's, seeing I was promised eternal
gratitude! What I wanted was to point out in this connection one extremely strange incident, rather to say,
psychological than simply strange. Yesterday evening, under the influence of my conversation with Varvara
Petrovnayou can fancy yourself what an impression it made on me - I approached Alexey Nilitch with a discreet
question: 'You knew Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch abroad,' said I, 'and used to know him before in Petersburg
too. What do you think of his mind and his abilities?' said I. He answered laconically, as his way is, that he
was a man of subtle intellect and sound judgment. 'And have you never noticed in the course of years,' said I,
'any turn of ideas or peculiar way of looking at things, or any, so to say, insanity?' In fact, I repeated Varvara
Petrovna's own question. And would you believe it, Alexey Nilitch suddenly grew thoughtful, and scowled,
just as he's doing now. 'Yes,' said he, 'I have sometimes thought there was something strange.' Take note, too,
that if anything could have seemed strange even to Alexey Nilitch, it must really have been something,
mustn't it?"

-- Stepan
"Is that true?" said Stepan Trofimovitch, turning to Alexey Nilitch.

-- Krillov
I should prefer not to speak of it. Liputin, you've no right to drag me into this. I did
not give my whole opinion at all. Though I knew Nikolay in Petersburg that was long ago, and
though I've met him since I know him very little. Leave me out of this scandal you're brewing up.

[Liputin threw up his hands with an air of oppressed innocence.]

-- Liputin (now also refers to Lebyadkin for first time)
"A scandal-monger! Why not say a spy while you're about it? It's all very well for you, Alexey Nilitch, to
criticise when you stand aloof from everything. But you wouldn't believe it, Stepan Trofimovitchtake Captain
Lebyadkin, he is stupid enough, one may say ... in fact, one's ashamed to say how stupid he is; there is a
Russian comparison, to signify the degree of it; and do you know he considers himself injured by Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch, though he is full of admiration for his wit. 'I'm amazed,' said he, 'at that man. ** He's a subtle
serpent.' His own words. And I said to him (still under the influence of my conversation, and after I had
spoken to Alexey Nilitch), 'What do you think, captain, is your subtle serpent mad or not?' Would you believe
it, it was just as if I'd given him a sudden lash from behind. He simply leapt up from his seat. 'Yes,' said he, '...
yes, only that,' he said, 'cannot affect ...' 'Affect what?' He didn't finish. Yes, and then he fell to thinking so
bitterly, thinking so much, that his drunkenness dropped off him. We were sitting in Filipov's restaurant. And
it wasn't till half an hour later that he suddenly struck the table with his fist. 'Yes,' said he, 'maybe he's mad,
but that can't affect it... .' Again he didn't say what it couldn't affect. Of course I'm only giving you an extract
of the conversation, but one can understand the sense of it. You may ask whom you like, they all have the
same idea in their heads, though it never entered anyone's head before. 'Yes,' they say, 'he's mad; he's very
clever, but perhaps he's mad too.' "

-- Stepan
"And how does Lebyadkin know?"

-- Liputin 
"Do you mind inquiring about that of Mr. Krillov, who has just called me a spy? I'm a spy, yet I don't
know, but Alexey Nilitch knows all the ins and outs of it, and holds his tongue."

-- Krillov
I know nothing about it, or hardly anything! You make Lebyadkin drunk to find out these details. And now its clear
you brought me here to find out what I know and make me say Nicolai is mad. Liputin, you must really be a spy.

-- Liputin
I didn't make him drunk... he's not worth the money, with all his secrets. They are not worth
that to me. I don't know what they are to you. On the contrary, he is scattering the money, though twelve days
ago he begged fifteen kopecks of me, and it's he treats me to champagne, not I him. But you've given me an
idea, and if there should be occasion I will make him drunk, just to get to the bottom of it and maybe I shall
find out ... all your little secrets!

[Stepan Trofimovitch looked in bewilderment at the two disputants who were giving themselves away]

-- Liputin
Krillov knows Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch quite well only he conceals it. And as to your question about Captain
Lebyadkin, he made his acquaintance before any of us did, six years ago in the Capitol, in that obscure,
if one may so express it, epoch in the life of Nikolay, before he had dreamed of rejoicing our hearts by coming
here. Our prince, one must conclude, surrounded himself with a rather a queer selection of acquaintances. It
was at that time, it seems, that he made acquaintance with this gentleman here.

-- Krillov
Take care, Liputin. I warn you, Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch meant to be here soon himself, and he knows how
to defend himself.

-- Liputin
Why warn me? I am the first to cry out that he is a man of the most subtle and refined intelligence, and I
quite reassured his mother Mrs. Petrovna yesterday on that score. 'It's his character,' I said to her, 'that I can't answer
for.' Lebyadkin said the same thing yesterday: 'A lot of harm has come to me from his character,' he said.
Stepan Trofimovitch, it's all very well for you to cry out about slander and spying, and at the very time
observe that you wring it all out of me, and with such immense curiosity too. Now, Varvara Petrovna went
straight to the point yesterday. ** 'You have had a personal interest in the business,' she said, 'that's why I appeal
to you.' I should say so! What need to look for motives when I've swallowed a personal insult from his
excellency before the whole society of the place. I should think I have grounds to be interested, not merely for
the sake of gossip. He shakes hands with you one day, and next day, for no earthly reason, he returns your
hospitality by slapping you on the cheeks in the face of all decent society, if the fancy takes him, out of sheer
wantonness. And what's more, the fair sex is everything for them, these butterflies and mettlesome-cocks!
Grand gentlemen with little wings like the ancient cupids, lady-killing Petchorins! It's all very well for you,
Stepan Trofimovitch, a confirmed bachelor, to talk like that, stick up for his excellency and call me a
slanderer. But if you married a pretty young wife as you're still such a fine fellow then I dare say you'd bolt
your door against our prince, and throw up barricades in your house! Why, if only that Mademoiselle
Lebyadkin, who is thrashed with a whip, were not mad and bandy-legged, by Jove, I should fancy she was the
victim of the passions of our general, and that it was from him that Captain Lebyadkin had suffered 'in his
family dignity,' as he expresses it himself. Only perhaps that is inconsistent with his refined taste, though,
indeed, even that's no hindrance to him. Every berry is worth picking if only he's in the mood for it. You talk
of slander, but I'm not crying this aloud though the whole town is ringing with it; I only listen and assent.
That's not prohibited.

-- Stepan
The town's ringing with what?

-- Liputin (about Lebyadkin)
That is, Captain Lebyadkin is shouting for all the town to hear, and isn't that just the same as the
market-place ringing with it? How am I to blame? I interest myself in it only among friends, for, after all, I
consider myself among friends here. [Liputin looks innocently at the others] Something's happened, only
consider: they say his excellency has sent three hundred roubles from Switzerland by a most honourable
young lady, and, so to say, modest orphan, whom I have the honour of knowing, to be handed over to Captain
Lebyadkin. And Lebyadkin, a little later, was told as an absolute fact also by a very honourable and therefore
trustworthy person, I won't say whom, that not three hundred but a thousand roubles had been sent! ... And so,
Lebyadkin keeps crying out' the young lady has grabbed seven hundred roubles belonging to me,' and he's
almost ready to call in the police; he threatens to, anyway, and he's making an uproar all over the town.

-- Krillov
This is vile, vile of you!

[Krillov gets up suddenly from his chair]

-- Liputin
But I say, Krillov you are yourself that honourable person who brought word to Lebyadkin from Nikolay
Vsyevolodovitch that a thousand roubles were sent, not three hundred. Why, the captain told me so himself
when he was drunk.

-- Krillov
It's ... it's an unhappy misunderstanding. Some one made a mistake and it's led to ... It's nonsense, and it's
base of you.

[THIS IS WHERE STEPAN'S ENGAGEMENT SHOWN TO BE A FARCE]
-- Liputin
I'm ready to believe that it's nonsense, and I'm distressed at the story, for, take it as you will, a girl of an
honourable reputation is implicated first over the seven hundred roubles, and secondly in unmistakable
intimacy with Nikolay Vsyevolodovitch. For how much does it mean to his excellency to disgrace a girl of
good character, or put to shame another man's wife, like that incident with me? If he comes across a
generous-hearted man he'll force him to cover the sins of others under the shelter of his honourable name.
That's just what I had to put up with, I'm speaking of myself... 

-- Stepan
Be careful, Liputin.

[stepan Trofimovitch got up from his easy chair and turned pale]

-- Krillov
Don't believe it, don't believe it! Somebody has made a mistake and Lebyadkin's drunk ...
It will all be explained, but I can't... And I think it's low... And that's enough, enough!

[exit Krillov (or keep him for the suicide conversation with Stepan - He ran out of the room.]

-- Liputin
What? Why, I'm going with you!

[exit Liputin]

Stepan Trofimovitch stood a moment reflecting, looked at me as though he did not see me, took up his hat and
stick and walked quietly out of the room. I followed him again, as before. As we went out of the gate, noticing
that I was accompanying him, he said:

"Oh yes, you may serve as a witness ... de I'accident. Vous m'accompagnerez, riest-ce pas?"

-- Narrator
Stepan Trofimovitch, surely you're not going there again? Think what may come of it!

[With a pitiful smile full of shame and despair]

-- Stepan
"I can't marry to cover 'another man's sins'!"
****
These words were just what I was expecting. At last that fatal sentence that he had kept hidden from me was
uttered aloud, after a whole week of shuffling and pretence. I was positively enraged.

-- Narrator
"And you, Stepan Verhovensky, with your luminous mind, your kind heart, can harbour such a dirty, such a
low idea ... and could before Liputin came!"

[He looked at me, made no answer and walked on in the same direction. I did not want to be left behind. I
wanted to give Varvara Petrovna my version. I could have forgiven him if he had simply with his womanish
faint-heartedness believed Liputin, but now it was clear that he had thought of it all himself long before, and
that Liputin had only confirmed his suspicions and poured oil on the flames. He had not hesitated to suspect
the girl from the very first day, before he had any kind of grounds, even Liputin's words, to go upon. Varvara
Petrovna's despotic behaviour he had explained to himself as due to her haste to cover up the aristocratic
misdoings of her precious ''Nicolas" by marrying the girl to an honourable man! I longed for him to be
punished for it.]

-- Stepan
"Oh, Dieu, qui est si grand et si ban! Oh, who will comfort me!" he exclaimed, halting suddenly again, after
walking a hundred paces.













------ END SCENE (mix in a little of below) ----------

-- START SUB SCENE KRILLOV (scene about suicide) --
[I did not find Shatov at home. I ran round again, two hours later. He was still out. At last, at eight o'clock I
went to him again, meaning to leave a note if I did not find him; again I failed to find him. His lodging was
shut up, and he lived alone without a servant of any sort. I did think of knocking at Captain Lebyadkin's down
below to ask about Shatov; but it was all shut up below, too, and there was no sound or light as though the
place were empty. I passed by Lebyadkin's door with curiosity, remembering the stories I had heard that day.
Finally, I made up my mind to come very early next morning: To tell the truth I did not put much confidence
in the effect of a note. Shatov might take no notice of it; he was so obstinate and shy. Cursing my want of
success, I was going out of the gate when all at once I stumbled on Mr. Kirillov. He was going into the house
and he recognised me first. As he began questioning me of himself, I told him how things were, and that I had
a note.]

-- Krillov
"Let us go in," said he, "I will do everything."

[I remembered that Liputin had told us he had taken the wooden lodge in the yard that morning. In the lodge,
which was too large for him, a deaf old woman who waited upon him was living too. The owner of the house
had moved into a new house in another street, where he kept a restaurant, and this old woman, a relation of
his, I believe, was left behind to look after everything in the old house. The rooms in the lodge were fairly
clean, though the wall-papers were dirty. In the one we went into the furniture was of different sorts, picked
up here and there, and all utterly worthless. There were two card-tables, a chest of drawers made of elder, a
big deal table that must have come from some peasant hut or kitchen, chairs and a sofa with trellis-work back
and hard leather cushions. In one corner there was an old-fashioned ikon, in front of which the old woman had
lighted a lamp before we came in, and on the walls hung two dingy oil-paintings, one, a portrait of the Tsar
Nikolas I, painted apparently between 1820 and 1830; the other the portrait of some bishop. Mr. Kirillov
lighted a candle and took out of his trunk, which stood not yet unpacked in a corner, an envelope,
sealing-wax, and a glass seal.]

--Krillov
"Seal your note and address the envelope."

[I would have objected that this was unnecessary, but he insisted. When I had addressed the envelope I took
my cap.]

"I was thinking you'd have tea," he said. "I have bought tea. Will you?"

[I could not refuse. The old woman soon brought in the tea, that is, a very large tea-pot of boiling water, a little
tea-pot full of strong tea, two large earthenware cups, coarsely decorated, a fancy loaf, and a whole deep
saucer of lump sugar.]

"I love tea at night," said he. "I walk much and drink it till daybreak. Abroad tea at night is inconvenient."

-- Narrator
"You go to bed at daybreak?"

-- Krillov
"Always; for a long while. I eat little; always tea. Liputin's sly, but impatient."

[I was surprised at his wanting to talk; I made up my mind to take advantage of the opportunity.]

-- Narrator
"There were unpleasant misunderstandings this morning," I observed.

He scowled.


"That's foolishness; that's great nonsense. All this is nonsense because Lebyadkin is drunk. I did not tell
Liputin, but only explained the nonsense, because he got it all wrong. Liputin has a great deal of fantasy, he
built up a mountain out of nonsense. I trusted Liputin yesterday."
"And me to-day?" I said, laughing.
"But you see, you knew all about it already this morning; Liputin is weak or impatient, or malicious or ... he's
envious."
The last word struck me.
"You've mentioned so many adjectives, however, that it would be strange if one didn't describe him."
"Or all at once."
"Yes, and that's what Liputin really ishe's a chaos. He was lying this morning when he said you were writing
something, wasn't he?
"Why should he?" he said, scowling again and staring at the floor.
I apologised, and began assuring him that I was not inquisitive. He flushed.
"He told the truth; I am writing. Only that's no matter."
We were silent for a minute. He suddenly smiled with the childlike smile I had noticed that morning.

****
-- Liputin
"He invented that about heads himself out of a book, and told me first himself, and understands badly. But I
only seek the causes why men dare not kill themselves; that's all. And it's all no matter."

-- Narrator
"How do you mean they don't dare? Are there so few suicides?"

-- Liputin
"Very few."

-- Narrator
"Do you really think so?"

"What is it restrains people from suicide, do you think?" I asked.

-- Liputin
"I ... I don't know much yet... . Two prejudices restrain them, two things; only two, one very little, the other
very big."

-- Narrator
"What is the little thing?"

-- Narrator
-- Liputin
"Pain."

-- Narrator
"Pain? Can that be of importance at such a moment?"

-- Liputin
"Of the greatest. There are two sorts: those who kill themselves either from great sorrow or from spite, or
being mad, or no matter what ... they do it suddenly. They think little about the pain, but kill themselves
suddenly. But some do it from reason they think a great deal."

-- Narrator
"Why, are there people who do it from reason?"

-- Liputin
"Very many. If it were not for superstition there would be more, very many, all."

-- Narrator
"What, all?" "But aren't there means of dying without pain?"

-- Liputin
"Imagine"he stopped before me" imagine a stone as big as a great house; it hangs and you are under it; if it
falls on you, on your head, will it hurt you?"

-- Narrator
"A stone as big as a house? Of course it would be fearful."

-- Liputin
"I speak not of the fear. Will it hurt?"

-- Narrator
"A stone as big as a mountain, weighing millions of tons? Of course it wouldn't hurt."

-- Liputin
"But really stand there and while it hangs you will fear very much that it will hurt. The most learned man, the
greatest doctor, all, all will be very much frightened. Every one will know that it won't hurt, and every one
will be afraid that it will hurt."

-- Narrator
"Well, and the second cause, the big one?"

"The other world!"

"You mean punishment?"

"That's no matter. The other world; only the other world."

"Are there no atheists, such as don't believe in the other world at all?"

"You judge from yourself, perhaps."
"Every one cannot judge except from himself," he said, reddening. "There will be full freedom when it will be
just the same to live or not to live. That's the goal for all."

"The goal? But perhaps no one will care to live then?"

"No one," he pronounced with decision.

"Man fears death because he loves life. That's how I understand it," I observed, "and that's determined by
nature."

-- Liputin
"That's abject; and that's where the deception comes in." His eyes flashed. "Life is pain, life is terror, and man
is unhappy. Now all is pain and terror. Now man loves life, because he loves pain and terror, and so they have
done according. Life is given now for pain and terror, and that's the deception. Now man is not yet what he
will be. There will be a new man, happy and proud. For whom it will be the same to live or not to live, he will
be the new man. He who will conquer pain and terror will himself be a god. And this God will not be."

"Then this God does exist according to you?"

-- Liputin
"He does not exist, but He is. In the stone there is no pain, but in the fear of the stone is the pain. God is the
pain of the fear of death. He who will conquer pain and terror will become himself a god. Then there will be a
new life, a new man; everything will be new ... then they will divide history into two parts: from the gorilla to
the annihilation of God, and from the annihilation of God to ..."

"To the gorilla?"

-- Liputin
"... To the transformation of the earth, and of man physically. Man will be God, and will be transformed
physically, and the world will be transformed and things will be transformed and thoughts and all feelings.
What do you think: will man be changed physically then?"

"If it will be just the same living or not living, all will kill themselves, and perhaps that's what the change will
be?"

"That's no matter. They will kill deception. Every one who wants the supreme freedom must dare to kill
himself. He who dares to kill himself has found out the secret of the deception. There is no freedom beyond;
that is all, and there is nothing beyond. He who dares kill himself is God. Now every one can do so that there
shall be no God and shall be nothing. But no one has once done it yet."

-- Liputin
"There have been millions of suicides."
"But always not for that; always with terror and not for that object. Not to kill fear. He who kills himself only
to kill fear will become a god at once."

-- Narrator
"He won't have time, perhaps," I observed.

-- Liputin
"That's no matter," he answered softly, with calm pride, almost disdain. "I'm sorry that you seem to be
laughing," he added half a minute later.

-- Narrator
"It seems strange to me that you were so irritable this morning and are now so calm, though you speak with
warmth."

-- Liputin
"This morning? It was funny this morning," he answered with a smile. "I don't like scolding, and I never
laugh," he added mournfully.

-- Narrator
"Yes, you don't spend your nights very cheerfully over your tea."

-- Liputin
"You think not?" he smiled with some surprise. "Why? No, I ... I don't know." He was suddenly confused. "I
know not how it is with the others, and I feel that I cannot do as others. Everybody thinks and then at once
thinks of something else. I can't think of something else. [***] I think all my life of one thing. God has tormented
me all my life," he ended up suddenly with astonishing expansiveness.

-- N
"And tell me, if I may ask, why is it you speak Russian not quite correctly? Surely you haven't forgotten it
after five years abroad?"

-- L
"Don't I speak correctly? I don't know. No, it's not because of abroad. I have talked like that all my life ... it's
no matter to me."

-- N
"Another question, a more delicate one. I quite believe you that you're disinclined to meet people and talk very
little. Why have you talked to me now?"

-- L
"To you? This morning you sat so nicely and you ... but it's all no matter ... you are like my brother, very
much, extremely," he added, flushing. "He has been dead seven years. He was older, very, very much."

-- N
"I suppose he had a great influence on your way of thinking?"

-- L
"N-no. He said little; he said nothing. I'll give your note."
-- END SCENE KRILLOV --

------------ Following segment could be mixed into into the opening monologue or later -----------
"I feel sure that you're in a regular litter and clouds of tobacco smoke. I'm sending you Marya and Fomushka.
They'll tidy you up in half an hour. And don't hinder them, but go and sit in the kitchen while they clear up.
I'm sending you a Bokhara rug and two china vases. I've long been meaning to make you a present of them,
and I'm sending you my Teniers, too, for a time! You can put the vases in the window and hang the Teniers
on the right under the portrait of Goethe; it will be more conspicuous there and it's always light there in the
morning. If he does turn up at last, receive him with the utmost courtesy but try and talk of trifling matters, of
some intellectual subject, and behave as though you had seen each other lately. Not a word about me. Perhaps
I may look in on you in the evening.V. S.
"P.S.If he does not come to-day he won't come at all."

-- Stepan
"I don't care a hang about her anxieties!
Why should I care if she's wearing herself out over Nikolay! Je proclame ma liberte! I've hidden her
gifts and vases.  I demanded she see me but all she says is, "stay at home".  I will not do her bidding
to cover another man's sins!
  If I am to marry Darya she'll need to speak to me herself and confess everything. Then
maybe I'll surprise a whole generation by my magnanimity... Am I a scoundrel or not, my dear sir?"

